Create rule S5344(xml): Web.Config, LayC-compliant (#3710)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5344/xml/rule.adoc

include::../summary.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../rationale.adoc[]

include::../impact.adoc[]

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

> [source,xml,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,xml]
```

include::../summary.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../rationale.adoc[]

include::../impact.adoc[]

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,xml,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
<configuration>
  <system.web>
    <authentication mode="Forms">
      <forms name="customer_login" timeout="30" loginUrl="~/Login.aspx">
        <credentials passwordFormat="Clear"> <!-- Noncompliant -->
          <user name="admin" password="password" />
        </credentials>
      </forms>
    </authentication>
  </system.web>
</configuration>
----

==== Compliant solution

> The form of authentication supports only Clear, SHA1, and MD5. None of them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``Form`` mode of authentication supports only Clear, SHA1, and MD5. None of them
```

are secure, so their use is highly discouraged. 

Instead, it is recommended to use another, modern authentication mechanism such as https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=visual-studio[ASP.Net Identity].

> For older .Net Framework versions, it is recommended to use the Membership API:
> 
> [source,xml,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
> ----
> <configuration>
>    <system.web>
>       <authentication mode="Forms">
>          <forms name="401kApp" loginUrl="/login.aspx" />
>       </authentication>
>       <membership defaultProvider="SqlProvider" hashAlgorithmType="SHA256">
>         <providers>
>             <add name="SqlProvider"
>                 type="System.Web.Security.SqlMembershipProvider"
>                 connectionStringName="YourConnectionString"
>                 enablePasswordRetrieval="false"
>                 enablePasswordReset="true"
>                 requiresQuestionAndAnswer="false"
>                 requiresUniqueEmail="false"
>                 maxInvalidPasswordAttempts="5"
>                 minRequiredPasswordLength="8"
>                 minRequiredNonalphanumericCharacters="1"
>                 passwordFormat="Hashed"
>                 applicationName="/" />
>         </providers>
>       </membership>
>     </system.web>
> </configuration>
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

include::../summary.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../rationale.adoc[]

include::../impact.adoc[]

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,xml,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
<configuration>
  <system.web>
    <authentication mode="Forms">
      <forms name="customer_login" timeout="30" loginUrl="~/Login.aspx">
        <credentials passwordFormat="Clear"> <!-- Noncompliant -->
          <user name="admin" password="password" />
        </credentials>
      </forms>
    </authentication>
  </system.web>
</configuration>
----

==== Compliant solution

> The form of authentication supports only Clear, SHA1, and MD5. Neither of them
> is secure, so its use is highly discouraged. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The form of authentication supports only Clear, SHA1, and MD5. None of them
are secure, so their use is highly discouraged. 
```

Instead, it is recommended to use another API altogether, such as the Membership

> API:

Reviewer 2: The Membership API is outdated as far as I can see. Resources seem to point more to ASP.NET (Core) Identity. I'm not a C# expert however, so might be best to involve someone who is.

Reviewer: Oh shiet, excellent catch, I did not realize that. I am going to follow your suggestion by making changes and get Jamie involved

> Instead, it is recommended to use another API altogether, such as the Membership
> API:
> 
> [source,xml,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
> ----
> <configuration>
>    <system.web>
>       <authentication mode="Forms">
>          <forms name="401kApp" loginUrl="/login.aspx" />
>       </authentication>
>       <membership defaultProvider="SqlProvider" hashAlgorithmType="SHA256">
>         <providers>
>             <add name="SqlProvider"
>                 type="System.Web.Security.SqlMembershipProvider"
>                 connectionStringName="YourConnectionString"
>                 enablePasswordRetrieval="false"
>                 enablePasswordReset="true"
>                 requiresQuestionAndAnswer="false"
>                 requiresUniqueEmail="false"
>                 maxInvalidPasswordAttempts="5"
>                 minRequiredPasswordLength="8"
>                 minRequiredNonalphanumericCharacters="1"
>                 passwordFormat="Hashed"
>                 applicationName="/" />
>         </providers>
>       </membership>
>     </system.web>
> </configuration>
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, it is recommended to use another, modern authentication mechanism such as https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=visual-studio[ASP.Net Identity].

For older .Net Framework versions, it is recommended to use the Membership API:

[source,xml,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
----
<configuration>
   <system.web>
      <authentication mode="Forms">
         <forms name="401kApp" loginUrl="/login.aspx" />
      </authentication>
      <membership defaultProvider="SqlProvider" hashAlgorithmType="SHA256">
        <providers>
            <add name="SqlProvider"
                type="System.Web.Security.SqlMembershipProvider"
                connectionStringName="YourConnectionString"
                enablePasswordRetrieval="false"
                enablePasswordReset="true"
                requiresQuestionAndAnswer="false"
                requiresUniqueEmail="false"
                maxInvalidPasswordAttempts="5"
                minRequiredPasswordLength="8"
                minRequiredNonalphanumericCharacters="1"
                passwordFormat="Hashed"
                applicationName="/" />
        </providers>
      </membership>
    </system.web>
</configuration>
----
```

=== How does this work?

include::../common/fix/password-hashing.adoc[]

Unfortunately, out of the .Net box, the algorithms we recommend are not

> available. Therefore, we recommend using the strong algorithms available, such

Reviewer 2: I think this should be reworded, somewhat. "Out of the .Net box" should probably rather be something like "out of the box, .NET does not offer the algorithms we recommend."

> as SHA256.

Reviewer 2: [ASP.NET Identity seems to use PBKDF2 by default,](https://github.com/aspnet/Identity/blob/feedcb5c53444f716ef5121d3add56e11c7b71e5/src/Core/PasswordHasher.cs#L19-L32) which means that we can confidently recommend this over other solutions.

> Unfortunately, out of the .Net box, the algorithms we recommend are not
> available. Therefore, we recommend using the strong algorithms available, such
> as SHA256.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, ASP.Net Identity supports PBKDF2 and uses it by default.
```
